Here are some helper scripts that are handy when using synctool.

It's a bit of hodge-podge collection of related scripts that have
been in use over the years. You don't necessarily need these scripts,
but might come in handy. They are provided AS IS and WITHOUT
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. The respective authors can not be held responsible
for any damage done by these scripts.


Files in this directory:

syslog-ng-synctool.conf
  syslog-ng configuration for filtering synctool syslog messages.

logrotate.conf
  logrotate configuration for rotating synctool.log log files.

synctool-structure
  A script that neatly displays the node configuration in formatted columns.
  Contributed by Onno Zweers

functions._none
  A collection of files to be used by tasks, for package management and
  service management. See instructions inside.
  Contributed by Onno Zweers

whitelist.post
  Script that does two things:
  - on a management node, creates a whitelist of files not to be cleaned up
  - on a cluster node, cleanes up the directory.
  It's far from perfect but perhaps a good starting point.
  Contributed by Onno Zweers

synctool-diff
  Compares files across a cluster, managed by synctool or not.

  Compare file in synctool overlay tree with file on node:
    synctool-diff node:/path/file

  Compare files on nodes or local:
     synctool-diff [node1:]/path1/file1 [node2:]/path2/file2

  Contributed by Onno Zweers

debian/
  contains files needed to make .deb packages from the synctool sources
  Contributed by Dennis Stam

synctool.bash_completion
  Copy this to /etc/bash_completion.d/synctool
  to enable bash completion
  Contributed by Tim Dittler

nmap_config.sh
  nmaps your management LAN to create a synctool.conf file
  Contributed by Walter

synctool_csmcompat.py
  checks for differences in node configuration between synctool-config
  and IBM's CSM nodes
  Contributed by Huub Stoffers (written by Walter)

checkconfig
  IRIX-like chkconfig command
  (and note how its functionality is really entirely different from
   RedHat/SuSE's chkconfig command)
  Contributed by Walter

ATTIC
In the attic/ are old, obsoleted, deprecated scripts.

synctool-updatechk
  cron.weekly/monthly script that checks for availability of newer version
  (obsoleted by synctool --check-update and synctool --download)
  Contributed by Walter

bootstrap-synctool-client.sh
  may be used for installing clients (obsoleted)
  Contributed by Walter

overlay.py
  proof-of-concept code for a tool that uses hardlinks
  to construct a tree that is directly synced using rsync
  This is an experimental code and not used in synctool
  Mind that this code stems for the day when synctool was still
  version 2, so there may be incompatibility issues with today's
  synctool
  Contributed by Walter

overlay.conf.example
  Example config file for overlay.py
  Contributed by Walter

rsynctool-single-suse.sh
rsynctool-suse.sh
synctool.sh
  Wrapper scripts that work nicely with synctool 3.
  (obsoleted by synctool 4)
  Contributed by Huub Stoffers

rsynctool-upload
  copies files from nodes into the repository
  (obsoleted by synctool -u)
  Contributed by Huub Stoffers

crc32.py
  checksum replacement for synctool.py.
  CRC-32 is fast, but regularly gives false positives
  Contributed by Walter

md5sum.py
  checksum replacement for synctool.py (MD5 already is default)
  Contributed by Walter

sha1sum.py
  checksum replacement for synctool.py
  SHA-1 is slow ... but highly reliable when it comes to collisions
  Contributed by Walter

